In the wake of multiculturalism, the canon began to make room for the literary production of several groups
of immigrants. Arab-American writers, however, remained marginal. Based on the notion of diaspora and its
implications, this paper intends to investigate the literary production by Arab immigrants and their descendants
in the United States with a view to discussing, in particular, the representation of gender. Through a brief
discussion of a few contemporary works, we intend to show that Arab-American writers operate a kind of deessentialization, that is, their works offer gender representations that virtually oppose disseminated stereotypes
of Arab peoples. It is our contention that the figure of Scheherazade is revised so as to create alternatives for
characters who wish to claim new roles for themselves without giving up their diasporic belonging.

The Arab diaspora in the United States,
comparatively speaking, is still largely without a terrain
for critical investigation. In academia, Arab Americans
are not the object of Middle East Studies, which focus
on the Middle East itself and not the diaspora that
originated in that area. They are not studied either in
Ethnic Studies Programs, that tend to focus generally
on Latinos, Asian-Americans, and Native-Americans,
among others. Arab Americans are not the topic of
investigation in American Studies Programs either,
which only in the past few decades began to cross
borders and admit that the term America refers to
a much larger geographical territory than only the
United States of America. This, by the way, takes us
to the problem of terminology. Strictly speaking, the
term Arab American should refer to Arab descendants
throughout the Americas, from north to south, but

it is commonly employed to refer to Arabs in the
United States only, as a natural consequence of the
term American being widely employed in the English
language to refer to that particular country only.
It is, however, a fact that desdendants of Arabs
in the United States are numerically significant and
culturally active, as their literary production reveals.
As they re-read the Arab traditions from new–both
geographical and cultural–perspective, at the same
time they contribute to a re-discovery of one part
of the Americas: the United States. This new gaze
undermines the cultural hegemony of mainstream
America and renders audible diverse, if not dissonant,
voices. These are the voices of hyphenated peoples,
or bicultural subjects, whose "hypen" connects two
elements whose relation can vary from a mode of
tension to one of near balance

The multiculturalist project of the 1970s contributed
to an expansion of the literary canon of the United
States, as it began to make room for works by writers
representing several minority groups. Arab-American
writers, however, remained somewhat marginal. While
many schools and colleges began to include works by
Latinos and by Asian Americans in their course syllabi,
Arab-American literature up to this day is only studied
in a few schools, particularly those in areas where the
Arab community is larger, such as the greater Detroit,
parts of California, and upstate New York.
Despite being relatively little known, the body of
Arab-American literature dates back to the beginning
of the twentieth century. The early writers of ArabAmerican descent formed a league known as the Al
Mahjar, whose key exponent was the well-known
Khalil Gibran. According to Palestinian-American
critic Lisa Suhair Majaj, the latter "were nonetheless
primarily expatriate writers, exiles whose vision was
trained in the Middle East and its literary and political
contexts" (Majaj 68). Their works were mostly bilingual,
and, though proud of their heritage, they lived in a
context that approved of assimilation, which in part
may explain the number of autobiographical pieces
about their successful integration into mainstream
American society.
Gibran Kahlil Gibran and his work The Prophet
earned the Mahjar writers recognition and paved the
road not only for a tradition of Arab-American poetry,
but also for other genres. As Evelyn Shakir explains, The
Prophet is built upon the "implicit claim that the Arab
homeland is a fountainhead of wisdom and spirituality"
(Shakir 5). Other Mahjar members, such as Abraham
Rihbany, Mikhail Naimy, and Ameen Rihani were
also instrumental in this first attempt at what we term
"literary diplomacy" insofar as they helped to "promote
cultural, social, and political reform in the East, based
on the Western model, and to encourage a spiritual
awakening in the West, based on the Eastern model"
(Ludescher 98).
After this initial phase, Arab-American writing
and its publication slowed down in the decades that
followed, only to gain momentum as a result of the early
1970s pedagogical multiculturalism, which had already
witnessed the voicing of other minority movements,
such as the Civil Rights. It is against this backdrop
that anthologies such as Wrapping the Grape Leaves:
A Sheaf of Contemporary Arab-American Poets (1982)
and Grape Leaves: A Century of Arab-American Poets
(1988) were published, followed later by Post-Gibran:
Anthology of New Arab-American Writing (1999) and
Dinarzad’s Children: An Anthology of Contemporary
Arab American Fiction (2004), which undoubtedly
conferred greater visibility upon the literature of the
Arab diaspora in the United States.
In an essay entitled "New Directions for ArabAmerican Writing at Century’s End," Majaj maps the
literary production of Arab Americans and points
out the need to diversify their writings in terms
of genres. She mentions the scarcity, or at times
absence, of performance pieces, children’s literature,
and drama. She also points out the need to approach
themes still considered taboo, such as racialization,
bilingualism, violence within the ethnic community,
and gender issues.
In effect, Arab-American feminists are still
trying to do away with the stereotypical image of the
Arab woman largely disseminated in the Western
media and the arts in general. One can think, for
instance, of Henri Matisse’s early twentieth-century
paintings, whose odalisques appear "naturally"
sensuous, with long hair, brightly colored accessories,
and more often than not few clothes on. However,
as Majaj points out, Arab-American feminists are
sometimes misunderstood by their Western sisters,
who mistakenly conclude that their rejection of male
oppression symptomatically entails a rejection of the
Arab tradition as a whole:
We need a stronger, more nuanced and less
defensive articulation of feminism. ArabAmerican feminist critique has been hampered
by the overwhelming array of orientalist
stereotypes about Arab culture. When Arab and
Arab-American women give voice to feminist
concerns, they are often assumed, both by their
own communities and by outside observers,
to be rejecting their own cultural traditions in
favor of a more "liberated" western culture. 
Contemporary Diaspora Studies constitute a fertile
ground for the discussion of gender relations and may
shed light on the misunderstanding pointed out above.
Among other theorists, James Clifford and co-editors
Jana Braziel and Anita Mannur affirm that diasporic
subjects today no longer necessarily wish to return to
the land of their ancestors, that is, the mythic return to
the past is not a conditio sine qua non. Assimilation, in
its turn, is not embraced either. After all, as Avtar Brah
affirms in Cartographies of Diaspora,
at the heart of the notion of diaspora is the
image of a journey. Yet not every journey
can be understood as diaspora. Diasporas
are clearly not the same as casual travel.
Nor do they normatively refer to temporary
sojourns. Paradoxically, diasporic journeys are
essentially about settling down, about putting
roots elsewhere.

Brah reiterates this idea when she proposes
the notion of a "homing desire" as an alternative to
returning to one’s place of origin (180). In accordance
with Brah, we firmly believe that the notion of home
pertains to the timeframe of the future, not of the
past. Always an arm’s-length short of reach, home is
the operating force behind diaspora subjects’ "settling
down", their everyday engagements.
At this point, Brah’s definition of the "diasporic
space" is equally useful for our discussion, for it aptly
translates the terrain on which the immigrant and the
native together negotiate their sense of belonging (Brah
181). This scenario is notable in the works of several
Arab-American writers; in fact, it is represented as an
inevitable choice down a long road of struggles.
Clifford, Brah, and Mannur remind us that women
play a significant role in contemporary diasporas,
whether as work force or as a cultural/social force that
effects deep changes in the diasporic community as a
whole. Moreover, as Floya Anthias argues, women are
crucial agents in the process of passing on ethnic and
nationalist ideologies, and, in the context of diaspora, it
is in their hands to decide how to perpetuate traditions
or even whether to perpetuate them (571). However, this
is not to say that women are necessarily empowered in
diaspora. Gayatri C. Spivak, in "Diasporas Old and New:
Women in Transnational World", states that women are
participants in a type of "diasporic subclass." According
to the author, women in diaspora become "the superdominated, the super-exploited, but not in the same
way" (249), meaning that patterns of oppression found
in the homeland endure in diaspora and are, in fact,
intensified and transformed. Such circumstances force
women to remake their surviving strategies within and
without their diasporic community.
In this essay, we intend to show that ArabAmerican writers–and especially Arab-American
women writers–operate a kind of de-essentialization,
that is, their works offer gender representations that
virtually oppose disseminated stereotypes of Arab
peoples and that are utterly in tune with contemporary
approaches to diaspora. Having this in mind, we can
begin to discuss the works of Arab-American writers in
a more productive way, without running the risk of an
essentialist or a nostalgic view. One fruitful way to do
this is to revisit and revise the figure of Scheherazade,
from the Thousand and One Nights, and her act of
telling stories, or narrating, as a strategy to remain alive.
The story of the Thousand and One Nights, also
known as the Arabian Nights, tells us of Shahryar, a
Persian king who was shocked to discover that his wife
had betrayed him. He then decides to marry a new virgin
each day, only to have her executed the next morning
before she possibly has a chance to betray him, too. He
marries Scheherazade, who entertains her husband with
the tales she tells. She begins a new tale each night but
never quite finishes it, leaving the King curious about
the outcome of the story and thus postponing her
execution. This lasts for one thousand and one nights,
and, despite variations in the numerous versions of the
story, as is common in folk literature, in all of them the
King ends up sparing Sheherazade’s life.
Scheherazade and Shahryar immediately come to
mind as protagonists of this renowned work, which has
been translated into dozens of languages. One character,
though, that is hardly mentioned in discussions of the
Thousand and One Nights is Dinarzad, Sheherazade’s
younger sister. In fact, it was Dinarzad who triggered
the storytelling when she went into Scheherazade’s
room and asked her to tell one last story. Dinarzad
herself does not narrate tales, as Scheherazade does.
Though a silenced woman, Dinarzad is instrumental in
creating the opportunity for another woman to speak.
It is our contention that Dinarzad and Scheherazade
now reappear in Arab-American literature under a
new guise. Emblematic of women’s bond and of what
Gayatri Spivak defines as "strategic essentialism", these
figures are recast in the role of women characters who
do speak for themselves or who equally devise schemes
to help other women fight submission, going against
the stereotype of the powerless and thus rendered silent
Arab woman that prevails up until today. As Spivak
argues, essentialism can become a strategic tool in order
to achieve group empowerment and thus counter the
dominance of patriarchy as well as of the colonial and
neocolonial powers that be. In "Criticism, Feminism
and the Institution", Spivak advises that those adopting
essentialisms must be aware of their reductionism and
untruthfulness, and should use them only temporarily,
for the purposes of empowerment. Women characters
in works by Arab-American writers do bond under a
strategic homogeneity, only to undermine impositions
and constraints of the old world and of their diasporic
community.
As this paper will demonstrate, the recasting of
women in these works takes effect, among other aspects,
in the way traditional elements are reinterpreted in
the American context. The fictional representation
of Arab Americans reveals that the experience of
diaspora effects deep changes in these subjects and in
the way they structure themselves as a social group
against the backdrop of newly acquired practices in
the hostland. Their attitude towards language, for
instance, is at times keenly marked. The representation
of food may be emblematic of diasporic negotiations
as well. The reconfiguration of gender roles too may
take place, especially among members of the younger
generation. Another noticeable change is the way
the women characters dress themselves. After all, the
way a community dresses tells us of its traditions and
social hierarchies; clothing, in many Western and nonWestern societies alike, is at times even imposed as a
means of social belonging, and it will certainly have a
role to play in diaspora, as the selected works by Arab
American writers will show.
West of the Jordan (2003), Laila Halaby’s first novel,
is narrated by four women characters–Hala, Khadija,
Soraya and Mawal–who are cousins and tell their stories
from different points of view. Hala was born in Jordan
to a Jordanian father and a Palestinian mother, and
later moved to the United States to study. The U.S.-born
Khadija and Soraya grew up in the United States, while
Mawal never left Nawara, Palestine, the birthplace of
the four cousins’ mothers.
Despite never having left the Arab world, Mawal
becomes significant in this discussion insofar as she
plays the role of a contemporary Scheherazade, telling
her own story and stories of other women. One can
easily argue that Mawal is directly affected by the
diasporic experience: she often comments on how those
that emigrated impact those who stay behind, and she is
highly influenced by the contact she has with American
culture through her relatives and other emigrants. In
her assessment, "Nawara could have a smaller version
of herself in the United States, which is like an army
calling all able-bodied young men away and then never
returning their bodies" (15).
More importantly, it is Mawal who conveys through
her narrative the testimonies of other village women,
often focusing on domestic violence. She narrates, for
instance, the story of Farah and her first husband, "who
gave her two children and fists that pounded her with
welts to cover her body, welts she ignored or covered
until it broke her father’s heart and he convinced her
husband to release her with divorce to freedom, but there
is no freedom for a divorced woman with two children"
(Halaby 51). Thus, of the four narrator cousins, it is
Mawal who more poignantly discusses the condition of
women. A reborn Scheherazade insofar as she is one of
the narrators in the novel, she also acts as a new type of
Dinarzad, as she listens attentively to the stories told by
other women of her Palestinian community and which
she incorporates into her own narrative. As she says,
she "will keep [those secret stories of village women]
safe and do no more than stitch them into the fabric of
our rozas As a matter of fact, it is also Mawal who explains the
significance of the traditional dress in their community:
Everywhere is famous for something:
political activism, delicious vegetables, ugly
women. Our village is an island, famous for
beautiful embroidered dresses that we call
rozas while most everyone else calls them
thobes, and yet surrounded by villages that
do not embroider at all.
The complicated embroidery on our rozas–
with both Palestinian and western stitches
and patterns, captures the spirit of Nawara.
(Halaby 15)
Embroidered dresses are indeed traditional in
Palestine. Although it was considered sort of out of
fashion for a while, the tradition of embroidering was
revived in the latter decades of the twentieth century.
During the first Intifada, as Iman Saca affirms, they
became symbolic of national affiliation: "the colors of the
Palestinian flag, and the word ‘Palestine’ embroidered
on garments and other items became popular symbols
of their homeland and national identity" (Saca 39).
The embroidered dress or tunic is meant to be worn
over another layer of clothes. Hala, a character and one
of the narrators in West of the Jordan, however, wears
her roza directly over her naked body. As she confesses,
she does so because of the climate:
My mother wore mostly western clothes–skirts
and shirts or western dresses–but at home she
liked dishdashes and this roza. I remember her
wearing it and being happy. It is not a fancy
one, but the pattern is clever and it suits me. I
even imagine it still carries her scent. (I don’t
tell anyone that it is so hot that underneath it
I am wearing only underwear–not a T-shirt
and shalwar pants as my mother would wear.).
(Halaby 203-4)
Although she does so for a practical reason, the act
of wearing the roza only with her underwear certainly
represents a transgression of the cultural tradition. At
the same time, paradoxically, it symbolizes her wish to
be in direct and unmediated contact with her tradition,
to turn it into a kind of second skin, and, of course,
her wish to be in contact also with her mother. It is
thus through her clothes–and her narrative–that she
performs agency. Hala, as it turns out, is the hyphenated
character who most operates an exchange between the
two sides of her bicultural experience.
Khadra Shamy, the protagonist of Mohja
Kahf ’s The Girl in Tangerine Scarf (2006), puts on
and takes off her hijab, the Muslim veil, as she too
negotiates her bicultural condition. Despite the fact
that as a child and teenager Khadra was rejected in
part–and a significant part at that, since it was the
most conspicuous sign of cultural affiliation she
displayed–due to her Muslim clothing, she somewhat
felt ennobled by wearing the veil:
The sensation of being hijabed was a thrill.
Khadra had acquired vestments of a higher
order. Hijab was a crown on her head. She went
forth lightly and went forth heavily into the
world, carrying the weight of a new grace […],
hijab soon grew to feel as natural to her as a
second skin, without which if she ventured into
the outside world she felt naked. (Kahf 112-13)
At his point Khadra could not see that the hijab
exercised imposition upon women, and rather took
it as a sign of her biological, as well as psychological,
maturity. She embraced the practice in such a way that,
out of her own will, she began to dress more and more
soberly, both in the choice of item as well as in relation
to dark colors she chose. At this point, the reader
begins to notice that her attitude towards clothing
parallels her questionings and assessment of religious
practice, of marriage, and ultimately of the condition
of women–as she falls in love for the first time, marries,
has an abortion, and makes discoveries about the older
women in her family.
After the sober phase, Khadra begins to wear more
colors, skirts, blouses, and at a certain point, during a
visit to Syria, she even stops wearing the hijab altogether.
After dropping her scarf accidentally, she ponders "how
veiling and unveiling are part of the same process, the
same cycle, how both are necessary; how both light and
dark are connected moments in the development of the
soul in its darkroom" (309). More as a token of hybridity
than of transgression, on the occasion of her return trip 
to the United States Khadra puts on an orange scarf
and blue jeans, because "she wanted them to know at
O’Hare [airport] that she was coming in under one of
the many signs of her heritage" (313).
Another novel that de-essentializes gender is
Crescent (2001), by the Jordanian-American Diana
Abu-Jaber. Sirine, the main character, is an orphan
who lives with her uncle. She takes up cooking and
becomes a chef in a Los Angeles restaurant that serves
Mediterranean food. In doing so, she performs a task
that is traditionally associated with the private sphere
of the home, and thus with women’s role, but turns
it into a professional activity–interestingly enough,
she learned to prepare the traditional dishes from the
Arab world not from her immigrant father, but rather
from her American mother. As Sirine transgresses the
essentialist view of Arab women as housewives, she uses
cooking to achieve professional status and financial
independence. Her love story with the Iraqi professor,
a fugitive of Sadam Hussein’s dictatorship, does not
hinder her progress toward empowerment in any way,
insofar as his demands in fact serve as a counterpoint to
her self-determinism.
Abu-Jaber’s Crescent has another element worth
investigating in the discussion of Arab-American
gender roles, though it is of a slightly different nature.
Sirine’s uncle is a male character in the novel who
functions as a kind of Scheherazade "in trousers", that
is, the male equivalent of the legendary storyteller, who
tells the fantastic tale of a fugitive Persian slave from
ancient times who immigrates to contemporary United
States. Her uncle, consequently, blurs the line between
the diegetic and hypodiegetic levels of the novel. More
importantly, as a male Scheherazade, he allows Sirine to
be a make-do Dinarzad, for it is to her that he tells his
tale of the slave:
"If you behave," he tells his thirty-nine-year-old
niece Sirine, "I’ll tell you the whole story this
time."
"You always say I’m too young to hear the
whole story," Sirine says. She carves tiny bit of
peel from a lemon for her uncle’s coffee. .[…]
He situates himself in his story-telling position–
elbow on knee and hand to brow. (Abu-Jaber 15)
In the chapter that follows in the novel, her uncle
finishes eating some tabbouleh salad, then has a ma’mul
cookie, and begins the next chapter of the slave story.
As one can notice, his oral narrative is intercalated
with tastes from the food Sirine prepares, as life /
nourishment / storytelling are intricately interwoven as
the novel progresses.
Gregory Orfalea’s "The Chandelier" (1984) too
presents a male Scheherazade who tells us a story of
hunger during war times in Lebanon. Exactly like Sirine’s
uncle in Abu-Jaber’s novel, Mukhlis, the protagonist of
Orfalea’s story, is another male Scheherazade. Matile,
his sister, keeps bringing more and more food to serve
to her guests–Mukhlis and his wife Wardi, and Matile’s
grandson–as the brother recounts an episode from his
childhood, when he travelled alone over the hills to
try to find food for his starving mother and siblings.
He came to an abandoned church and took a gold
chandelier from it, which he had to drag to a nearby
village in order to exchange it for some milk.
As the past of hunger in the old world and the
present time of abundance of food in California are
juxtaposed, here too nourishment appears in the form
of food and of storytelling. On the diegetic level, the
third-person narrator tells us that after immigration
Mukhlis used to sing of his homeland to other members
of the Arab diaspora, but the singing stopped when his
mother died. Similarly, the narrative of the hypodiegetic
level also stops when the climax of the tale is reached:
the death by hunger of Mukhlis’s youngest sibling,
baby Wadie. In both instances, Mukhlis’s sensibility is
underscored, rendering a new picture of the Arab man.
A story permeated with Christian symbolism, "The
Chandelier" (1984) closes with an image that suggests
a blessing of the Arab diaspora in the United States–a
blessing of their meal, clearly connected with Mukhlis’s
act of remembering and of narrating the past: "They eat
in silence, the unlit chandelier struck by the California
sundown. It breaks into light above the food; it breaks in
pieces of light on Mukhlis’s almond head" (Orfalea 355).
Speaking of less rigid, or less stereotypical male
figures, another character that comes to mind is
Nazir, in Joseph Geha’s short story "Monkey Business"
(1990). Because of his sensitivity, Nazir, nicknamed 
Zizi, is not considered a "practical man" by the ArabAmerican community, and suffers tremendously after
his wife’s death:
When Samira was alive it had been a home. It
had been a place where Zizi rediscovered what
he’d had once before in his own father’s house–
the quiet, childlike confidence that here things
would always be clean and, no matter what, he
would be taken care of. It is this Zizi misses far
more than the love in bed. (Geha 3)
In the end of the story, after nearly marrying a
mail-bride from the old world, Nazir finds comfort
in the company of his seven-year-old son, who puts
on his deceased mother’s wedding ring, takes off
his father’s shoes and prepares a nice and hot cup of
coffee for him–like Nazir’s late wife used to do, the
same cup of coffee that epitomizes the feeling of home
throughout the story. Although Nazir himself does not
narrate–we have instead a third-person omniscient
narrator–his fate is being sealed by the elderly in his
family, as Scheherazade’s fate was sealed by Shahryar.
The narration of the thousand and one Arabian tales
saved Scheherazade, while the narration of Nazir’s
predicament by the unknown narrator who possibly
represents the voice of the Arab diaspora saved him
from another arranged marriage.
These Arab-American diasporic writers allow
contemporary Scheherazades to tell their stories, and
give voice to characters who were formerly silent
like Dinarzad, but who are now empowered and
offer alternatives to gender and cultural oppression.
Moreover, as the works mentioned above illustrate, it
is worth emphasizing that not only the role of women
is negotiated, but also men in the Arab-American
community are viewed from a new angle, which we
see as a significant step ahead in the discussion of
gender in diaspora. While fiction does away with
rooted stereotypes both of women and of men, these
characters do not necessarily have to give up their
identities as descendants of Arabs. Cultural clashes
persist, as conflicts within the diaspora community
itself continue, but as the homing desire is enacted,
momentary comfort zones are created and nourish 
the possibility of the future at which Edward Said has
signaled in Reflections on Exile:
Exile can produce rancor and regret, as well as
a sharpened vision. What has been left behind
may either be mourned, or it can be used to
provide a different set of lenses. Since almost
by definition exile and memory go together, it
is what one remembers of the past and how one
remembers it that determines how one sees the
future. (xxxv)
Despite the demonization of Arabs as a result of the
1967 Arab-Israeli war, of the Gulf War, and of terrorist
attacks, Arab Americans do not resort to positive icons
or the Middle East as a form of compensation. As
Scheherazades and Dinarzads of the Bush and Obama
era, the fictional characters discussed here echo a
thousand and one voices of Arab exiles in the United
States who clamor to be heard and seen from a new
perspective. Moreover, far from victimization, fictional
works by Arab Americans have been able to move from
the exemplary text of the collective experience and to a
more subjective, personal focus, as today they present
readers with a new form of agency through an effective
reconfiguration of gender roles

Note
1. The hyphen constitutes such a charged token in this
scenario that it is worth mentioning that, throughout
this essay, we will only leave it out in instances where
grammatical rule dictates so: the hyphen should be
used only when the term appears in adjective position
(e.g. an Arab-American writer), while it is not used in
the subject position (e.g. Arab Americans are part of
the Arab diaspora).
Bibliography
Abu-Jaber, Diana. Crescent. New York: Harcourt, Brace &
Company, 2001. Print.
Anthias, Floya. "Evaluating ‘Diaspora’: Beyond Ethnicity?"
Sociology. 32.3 (1998): 557-580. Print.
Brah, Avtar. Cartographies of Diaspora: Contesting
Identities. London and New York: Routledge, 1996.
Print.
Braziel, Jana E., and Anita Mannur. "Nation, Migration,
Globalization: Points of Contestation in Diaspora 
Studies". Theorizing Diaspora: A Reader. Ed. Jana E.
Braziel and Anita Mannur. Malden, MA: Blackwell,
2005. Print.
Clifford, James. "Diasporas." Cultural Anthropology 9:3
(1994): 302-38. Print.
Darraj, Susan Muadi. Scheherazade´s Legacy: Arab and
Arab American Women on Writing. Westport, CT:
Praeger Publishers, 2004. Print.
Geha, Joseph. "Monkey Business." Through and Through:
Toledo Stories. Saint Paul, Minnesota: Graywolf Press,
1990. 1-18. Print.
Halaby, Laila. West of the Jordan. Boston: Beacon Press,
2003. Print.
Kaldas, Pauline, and Khaled Mattawa (Eds.). Dinarzard’s
Children: An Anthology of Contemporary Arab
American Fiction. Fayetteville: U of Arkansas P, 2004.
Print.
Kadi, Joanna. "Introduction". Food for Our Grandmothers:
Writings by Arab-Canadian Feminists. Ed. Joanna Kadi.
Boston: South End Press, 1994. xiii- xx. Print.
Kahf, Mohja. The Girl in the Tangerine Scarf. New York:
Carroll and Graf, 2006. Print.
Ludescher, Tanyss. "From Nostalgia to Critique: An
Overview of Arab-American Literature." MELUS. 31.4
(2006): 93-114. Print.
Majaj, Lisa S. "New Directions: Arab-American Writing
at Century’s End". Post-Gibran Anthology of New ArabAmerican Writing. Ed. Khaled Mattawa and Munir
Akash. Syracuse, NY: Syracuse UP, 1999. 67-77. Print.
Orfalea, Gregory. "The Chandelier." Imagining America:
Stories from the Promised Land. Ed. Wesley Brown and
Amy Ling. New York: Persea, 2002. 345-55. Print.
Saca, Iman. Embroidering Identities: A Century of
Palestinian Clothing. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 2006.
Print.
Said, Edward. Reflections on Exile and Other Essays.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 2000. Print.
Shakir, Evelyn. "Arab-American Literature". New Immigrant
Literatures in the United States: A Sourcebook to Our
Multicultural Literary Heritage. Ed. Alpana Knippling.
Westport: Greenwood Publishing Group, 1996. 3-18.
Print.
Spivak, Gayatri C. "Criticism, Feminism and the
Institution". Thesis Eleven. 10.11 (1984-5): 175-89.
Print.
______. "Diasporas Old and New: Women in Transnational
World". Textual Practice. 2.10 (1996): 245-69. Print. 
______. The Spivak Reader: Selected Works of Gayatri
Chakravorty Spivak. Ed. Donna Landry and Gerald
MacLean. New York: Routledge, 1996. Print.
Recebido em: 28/05/2014
Aceito em: 06/10/2014


Copyright (c) 2014 Gláucia Renate Gonçalves, Cláudio Braga 

Creative Commons License
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License. 

